SpaceX

Space Exploration Technologies Corp., doing business as SpaceX, is a private American aerospace
manufacturer and space transportation services company headquartered in Hawthorne, California. It
was founded in 2002 by entrepreneur Elon Musk with the goal of reducing space transportation costs
and enabling the colonization of Mars.[9][10][11] SpaceX has since developed the Falcon launch
vehicle family and the Dragon spacecraft family, which both currently deliver payloads into Earth
orbit.

SpaceX's achievements include the first privately funded liquid-propellant rocket to reach orbit
(Falcon 1 in 2008),[12] the first private company to successfully launch, orbit, and recover a
spacecraft (Dragon in 2010), the first private company to send a spacecraft to the International
Space Station (Dragon in 2012),[13] the first propulsive landing for an orbital rocket (Falcon 9 in
2015), the first reuse of an orbital rocket (Falcon 9 in 2017), and the first private company to
launch an object into orbit around the sun (Falcon Heavy's payload of a Tesla Roadster in 2018).
SpaceX has flown 16 resupply missions to the International Space Station (ISS) under a partnership
with NASA.[14] NASA also awarded SpaceX a further development contract in 2011 to develop and
demonstrate a human-rated Dragon, which would be used to transport astronauts to the ISS and return
them safely to Earth.[15] SpaceX conducted the maiden launch of its Crew Dragon spacecraft on a
NASA-required demonstration flight on March 2, 2019 and is set to launch its first crewed Crew
Dragon later in 2019.[16] On 11 March at 8:45 a.m. EST, the SpaceX Crew Dragon completed its first
uncrewed flight that splash-landed in the Atlantic. The flight named SpX-DM1 has demonstrated the
Crew Dragon's ability to safely transport crew to ISS and back.[17].

SpaceX announced in 2011 that it was beginning a reusable launch system technology development
program. In December 2015, the first Falcon 9 was flown back to a landing pad near the launch site,
where it successfully accomplished a propulsive vertical landing. This was the first such
achievement by a rocket for orbital spaceflight.[18] In April 2016, with the launch of CRS-8,
SpaceX successfully vertically landed the first stage on an ocean drone ship landing platform.[19]
In May 2016, in another first, SpaceX again landed the first stage, but during a significantly more
energetic geostationary transfer orbit mission.[20] In March 2017, SpaceX became the first to
successfully re-launch and land the first stage of an orbital rocket.[21]

In September 2016, CEO Elon Musk unveiled the mission architecture of the Interplanetary Transport
System program, an ambitious privately funded initiative to develop spaceflight technology for use
in crewed interplanetary spaceflight. In 2017, Musk unveiled an updated configuration of the
system, now named Starship and Super Heavy, which is planned to be fully reusable and will be the
largest rocket ever on its debut, currently scheduled for the early 2020s.[22][23]

History

In 2001, Elon Musk conceptualized Mars Oasis, a project to land a miniature experimental greenhouse
and grow plants on Mars. "This would be the furthest that life’s ever traveled"[24] in an attempt
to regain public interest in space exploration and increase the budget of NASA.[25][26][27] Musk
tried to buy cheap rockets from Russia but returned empty-handed after failing to find rockets for
an affordable price.[28][29] On the flight home, Musk realized that he could start a company that
could build the affordable rockets he needed.[29] According to early Tesla and SpaceX investor
Steve Jurvetson,[30] Musk calculated that the raw materials for building a rocket actually were
only three percent of the sales price of a rocket at the time. By applying vertical
integration,[28] producing around 85% of launch hardware in-house,[31][32] and the modular approach
from software engineering, SpaceX could cut launch price by a factor of ten and still enjoy a 70%
gross margin.[33]

In early 2002, Musk was seeking staff for his new space company, soon to be named SpaceX. Musk
approached rocket engineer Tom Mueller (later SpaceX's CTO of Propulsion) and Mueller agreed to
work for Musk, and thus SpaceX was born.[34] SpaceX was first headquartered in a warehouse in El
Segundo, California. The company has grown rapidly since it was founded in 2002, growing from 160
employees in November 2005 to 1,100 in 2010,[35][36] 3,800 employees and contractors by October
2013,[37] nearly 5,000 by late 2015,[38][39] and about 6,000 in April 2017.[40] As of November
2017, the company had grown to nearly 7,000.[3] In 2016, Musk gave a speech at the International
Astronautical Congress, where he explained that the US government regulates rocket technology as an
"advanced weapon technology", making it difficult to hire non-Americans.[41]

As of March 2018, SpaceX had over 100 launches on its manifest representing about $12 billion in
contract revenue.[42] The contracts included both commercial and government (NASA/DOD)
customers.[43] In late 2013, space industry media quoted Musk's comments on SpaceX
"forcing…increased competitiveness in the launch industry," its major competitors in the commercial
comsat launch market being Arianespace, United Launch Alliance, and International Launch
Services.[44] At the same time, Musk also said that the increased competition would "be a good
thing for the future of space." Currently, SpaceX is the leading global commercial launch provider
measured by manifested launches.[45]

Goals

Musk has stated that one of his goals is to decrease the cost and improve the reliability of access
to space, ultimately by a factor of ten.[46] CEO Elon Musk said: "I believe $500 per pound
($1,100/kg) or less is very achievable."[47]

Falcon Heavy Rocket on Launch Pad 39-A in Cape Canaveral, FL A major goal of SpaceX has been to
develop a rapidly reusable launch system. As of March 2013, the publicly announced aspects of this
technology development effort include an active test campaign of the low-altitude, low-speed
Grasshopper vertical takeoff, vertical landing (VTVL) technology demonstrator rocket,[48][49][50]
and a high-altitude, high-speed Falcon 9 post-mission booster return test campaign. In 2015, SpaceX
successfully landed the first orbital rocket stage on December 21. To date, SpaceX has successfully
landed 25 boosters: 23 Falcon 9 and 5 Falcon Heavy.

In 2017, SpaceX formed a subsidiary, The Boring Company,[4] and began work to construct a short
underground test tunnel on and adjacent to the SpaceX headquarters and manufacturing facility,
utilizing a small number of SpaceX employees,[51] which was completed in May 2018,[52][53] and
opened to the public in December 2018.[54] During 2018, The Boring Company was spun out into a
separate corporate entity with 6% of the equity going to SpaceX, less than 10% to early employees,
and the remainder of the equity to Elon Musk.[54]

At the 2017 International Astronautical Congress in Adelaide, Australia, Musk announced his plans
to build large spaceships to reach Mars.[55] Using the BFR, Musk plans to land at least two
uncrewed cargo ships to Mars in 2022. The first missions will be used to seek out sources of water
and build a propellant plant. In 2024, Musk plans to fly four additional ships to Mars including
the first people. From there, additional missions would work to establish a Mars colony.[10][56]
Musk's advocacy for the long-term settlement of Mars, goes far beyond what SpaceX projects to
build;[57][58][59] a successful colonization would ultimately involve many more economic
actors—whether individuals, companies, or governments—to facilitate the growth of the human
presence on Mars over many decades.[60][61][62]

Setbacks

In March 2013, a Dragon spacecraft in orbit developed issues with its thrusters that limited its
control capabilities. SpaceX engineers were able to remotely clear the blockages within a short
period, and the spacecraft was able to successfully complete its mission to and from the
International Space Station.

In June 2015, CRS-7 launched a Dragon capsule atop a Falcon 9 to resupply the International Space
Station. All telemetry readings were nominal until 2 minutes and 19 seconds into the flight, when a
loss of helium pressure was detected and a cloud of vapor appeared outside the second stage. A few
seconds after this, the second stage exploded. The first stage continued to fly for a few seconds
before disintegrating due to aerodynamic forces. The capsule was thrown off and survived the
explosion, transmitting data until it was destroyed on impact.[68] Later it was revealed that the
capsule could have landed intact if it had software to deploy its parachutes in case of a launch
mishap.[69] The problem was discovered to be a failed 2-foot-long steel strut purchased from a
supplier[70] to hold a helium pressure vessel that broke free due to the force of acceleration.[71]
This caused a breach and allowed high-pressure helium to escape into the low-pressure propellant
tank, causing the failure. The Dragon software issue was also fixed in addition to an analysis of
the entire program in order to ensure proper abort mechanisms are in place for future rockets and
their payload.[72]

In September 2016, a Falcon 9 exploded during a propellant fill operation for a standard pre-launch
static fire test.[73][74] The payload, the Spacecom Amos-6 communications satellite valued at $200
million, was destroyed.[75] Musk described the event as the "most difficult and complex failure"
ever in SpaceX's history; SpaceX reviewed nearly 3,000 channels of telemetry and video data
covering a period of 35–55 milliseconds for the postmortem.[76] Musk reported the explosion was
caused by the liquid oxygen that is used as propellant turning so cold that it solidified and it
ignited with carbon composite helium vessels.[77] Though not considered an unsuccessful flight, the
rocket explosion sent the company into a four-month launch hiatus while it worked out what went
wrong, and SpaceX returned to flight in January 2017.[78]

Ownership, funding and valuation

In August 2008, SpaceX accepted a $20 million investment from Founders Fund.[79] In early 2012,
approximately two-thirds of the company were owned by its founder[80] and his 70 million shares
were then estimated to be worth $875 million on private markets,[81] which roughly valued SpaceX at
$1.3 billion as of February 2012.[82] After the COTS 2+ flight in May 2012, the company private
equity valuation nearly doubled to $2.4 billion.[83][84] In January 2015, SpaceX raised $1 billion
in funding from Google and Fidelity, in exchange for 8.333% of the company, establishing the
company valuation at approximately $12 billion. Google and Fidelity joined prior investors Draper
Fisher Jurvetson, Founders Fund, Valor Equity Partners and Capricorn.[85][86] In July 2017, the
Company raised US$350m at a valuation of US$21 billion.[87]

As of May 2012, SpaceX had operated on total funding of approximately $1 billion in its first ten
years of operation. Of this, private equity provided about $200M, with Musk investing approximately
$100M and other investors having put in about $100M (Founders Fund, Draper Fisher Jurvetson, ...).
The remainder has come from progress payments on long-term launch contracts and
development contracts. By March 2018, SpaceX had contracts for 100 launch missions, and each of
those contracts provide down payments at contract signing, plus many are paying progress payments
as launch vehicle components are built in advance of mission launch, driven in part by US
accounting rules for recognizing long-term revenue.[43]

Successful SpaceX launches by year[89] Congressional testimony by SpaceX in 2017 suggested that the
NASA Space Act Agreement process of "setting only a high-level requirement for cargo transport to
the space station [while] leaving the details to industry" had allowed SpaceX to design and develop
the Falcon 9 rocket on its own at substantially lower cost. "According to NASA's own independently
verified numbers, SpaceX’s development costs of both the Falcon 1 and Falcon 9 rockets were
estimated at approximately US$390 million in total. "In 2011, NASA estimated that it would have
cost the agency about US$4 billion to develop a rocket like the Falcon 9 booster based upon NASA's
traditional contracting processes". The Falcon 9 launch system, with an estimated improvement at
least four to ten times over traditional cost-plus contracting estimates, about $400 million vs. $4
billion in savings through the usage of Space Act Agreements.[90]

In April 2019, the Wall Street Journal reported that SpaceX was raising another $500 million in
funding.[91]

Spacecraft and flight hardware

SpaceX currently manufactures three broad classes of rocket engine in-house: the kerosene fueled
Merlin engines, the methane fueled Raptor engines, and the hypergolic fueled Draco/SuperDraco
vernier thrusters. The Merlin powers their two main space launch vehicles: the Falcon 9,[92] which
flew successfully into orbit on its maiden launch in June 2010[93] and the super-heavy class Falcon
Heavy, which was launched for the first time on February 6, 2018. SpaceX also manufactures the
Dragon, a pressurized orbital spacecraft that is launched on top of a Falcon 9 booster to carry
cargo to low Earth orbit, and the follow-on Dragon 2 spacecraft, or Crew Dragon, currently in the
process of being human-rated through a variety of design reviews and flight tests that began in
2014.[94][95]

Rocket engines

Since the founding of SpaceX in 2002, the company has developed three families of rocket engines —
Merlin and the retired Kestrel for launch vehicle propulsion, and the Draco control thrusters.
SpaceX is currently developing two further rocket engines: SuperDraco and Raptor. SpaceX is
currently the world’s most prolific producer of liquid fuel rocket engines.[96]

Merlin is a family of rocket engines developed by SpaceX for use on its Falcon rocket family.
Merlin engines use LOX and RP-1 as propellants in a gas-generator power cycle. The Merlin engine
was originally designed for sea recovery and reuse. The injector at the heart of Merlin is of the
pintle type that was first used in the Apollo Program for the lunar module landing engine.
Propellants are fed via a single shaft, dual impeller turbo-pump.

Kestrel is a LOX/RP-1 pressure-fed rocket engine, and was used as the Falcon 1 rocket's second
stage main engine. It is built around the same pintle architecture as SpaceX's Merlin engine but
does not have a turbo-pump, and is fed only by tank pressure. Its nozzle is ablatively cooled in
the chamber and throat, is also radiatively cooled, and is fabricated from a high strength niobium
alloy.

Both names for the Merlin and Kestrel engines are derived from species of North American falcons:
the kestrel and the merlin.[97]

Draco are hypergolic liquid-propellant rocket engines that utilize monomethyl hydrazine fuel and
nitrogen tetroxide oxidizer. Each Draco thruster generates 400 newtons (90 lbf) of thrust.[98] They
are used as reaction control system (RCS) thrusters on the Dragon spacecraft.[99] SuperDraco
engines are a much more powerful version of the Draco thrusters, which were initially meant to be
used as landing and launch escape system engines on the version 2 Dragon spacecraft, Dragon 2. The
concept of using retro-rockets for landing was scrapped in 2017 when it was decided to perform a
traditional parachute descent and splashdown at sea.[100]

Raptor is a new family of methane-fueled full flow staged combustion cycle engines to be used in
its future Interplanetary Transport System. Development versions were test fired in late 2016.[101]
On April 3, 2019, SpaceX conducted a successful static fire test in Texas on its Starhopper
vehicle, which ignited the engine while the vehicle remained tethered to the ground.[102]

Falcon launch vehicles

Since 2010, SpaceX has flown all its missions on the Falcon 9, with one test flight of Falcon
Heavy. They previously developed and flew the Falcon 1 pathfinder vehicle.

Falcon 1 was a small rocket capable of placing several hundred kilograms into low earth orbit.[93]
It functioned as an early test-bed for developing concepts and components for the larger Falcon
9.[93] Falcon 1 attempted five flights between 2006 and 2009. With Falcon I, when Musk announced
his plans for it before a subcommittee in the Senate in 2004, he discussed that Falcon I would be
the 'worlds only semi-reusable orbital rocket' apart from the space shuttle.[103] On September 28,
2008, on its fourth attempt, the Falcon 1 successfully reached orbit, becoming the first privately
funded, liquid-fueled rocket to do so.[104]

Falcon 9 is an EELV-class medium-lift vehicle capable of delivering up to 22,800 kilograms (50,265
lb) to orbit, and is intended to compete with the Delta IV and the Atlas V rockets, as well as
other launch providers around the world. It has nine Merlin engines in its first stage.[105] The
Falcon 9 v1.0 rocket successfully reached orbit on its first attempt on June 4, 2010. Its third
flight, COTS Demo Flight 2, launched on May 22, 2012, and was the first commercial spacecraft to
reach and dock with the International Space Station.[106] The vehicle was upgraded to Falcon 9 v1.1
in 2013 and again in 2015 to the current Falcon 9 Full Thrust version. As of February 2018, Falcon
9 vehicles have flown 49 successful missions with one failure, the CRS-7 mission. An additional
vehicle was destroyed during a routine test several days prior to a scheduled launch in 2016.

In 2011, SpaceX began development of the Falcon Heavy, a heavy-lift rocket configured using a
cluster of three Falcon 9 first stage cores with a total 27 Merlin 1D engines and propellant
crossfeed.[107][108] The Falcon Heavy successfully flew on its inaugural mission on February 6,
2018 with a payload consisting of Musk's personal Tesla Roadster into heliocentric orbit[109] The
first stage would be capable of lifting 63,800 kilograms (140,660 lb) to LEO with the 27 Merlin 1D
engines producing 22,819 kN of thrust at sea level, and 24,681 kN in space. At the time of its
first launch, SpaceX described their Falcon Heavy as "the world's most powerful rocket in
operation".[110]

Dragon capsules

In 2005, SpaceX announced plans to pursue a human-rated commercial space program through the end of
the decade.[111] The Dragon is a conventional blunt-cone ballistic capsule which is capable of
carrying cargo or up to seven astronauts into orbit and beyond.[112][112]

In 2006, NASA announced that the company was one of two selected to provide crew and cargo resupply
demonstration contracts to the ISS under the COTS program.[113] SpaceX demonstrated cargo resupply
and eventually crew transportation services using the Dragon.[106] The first flight of a Dragon
structural test article took place in June 2010, from Launch Complex 40 at Cape Canaveral Air Force
Station during the maiden flight of the Falcon 9 launch vehicle; the mock-up Dragon lacked
avionics, heat shield, and other key elements normally required of a fully operational spacecraft
but contained all the necessary characteristics to validate the flight performance of the launch
vehicle.[114] An operational Dragon spacecraft was launched in December 2010 aboard COTS Demo
Flight 1, the Falcon 9's second flight, and safely returned to Earth after two orbits, completing
all its mission objectives.[94] In 2012, Dragon became the first commercial spacecraft to deliver
cargo to the International Space Station,[106] and has since been conducting regular resupply
services to the ISS.[115]

In April 2011, NASA issued a $75 million contract, as part of its second-round commercial crew
development (CCDev) program, for SpaceX to develop an integrated launch escape system for Dragon in
preparation for human-rating it as a crew transport vehicle to the ISS.[116] In August 2012, NASA
awarded SpaceX a firm, fixed-price SAA with the objective of producing a detailed design of the
entire crew transportation system. This contract includes numerous key technical and certification
milestones, an uncrewed flight test, a crewed flight test, and six operational missions following
system certification.[117] The fully autonomous Crew Dragon spacecraft is expected to be one of the
safest crewed spacecraft systems. Reusable in nature, the Crew Dragon will offer savings to
NASA.[117]

SpaceX conducted a test of an empty Crew Dragon to ISS in early 2019, and later in the year they
plan to launch a crewed Dragon which will send US astronauts to the ISS for the first time since
the retirement of the Space Shuttle.[118][119] In February 2017 SpaceX announced that two would-be
space tourists had put down "significant deposits" for a mission which would see the two tourists
fly on board a Dragon capsule around the Moon and back again.

In addition to SpaceX's privately funded plans for an eventual Mars mission, NASA Ames Research
Center had developed a concept called Red Dragon: a low-cost Mars mission that would use Falcon
Heavy as the launch vehicle and trans-Martian injection vehicle, and the Dragon capsule to enter
the Martian atmosphere. The concept was originally envisioned for launch in 2018 as a NASA
Discovery mission, then alternatively for 2022[120] The objectives of the mission would be return
the samples from Mars to Earth at a fraction of the cost of the NASA own return-sample mission now
projected at 6 billion dollars.[120][121]

In September 2017, Elon Musk released first prototype images of their space suits to be used in
future missions. The suit is in testing phase and it is designed to cope with 2 ATM pressure in
vacuum.[122][123]

The Crew Dragon spacecraft was first sent to space on March 2, 2019.

Research and development

SpaceX is actively pursuing several different research and development programs. Most notable are
those intended to develop reusable launch vehicles, an interplanetary transport system and a global
telecommunications network.

SpaceX has on occasion developed new engineering development technologies to enable it to pursue
its various goals. For example, at the 2015 GPU Technology Conference, SpaceX revealed their own
computational fluid dynamics (CFD) software to improve the simulation capability of evaluating
rocket engine combustion design.[124][125]

Reusable launch system

SpaceX's reusable launcher program was publicly announced in 2011 and the design phase was
completed in February 2012. The system returns the first stage of a Falcon 9 rocket to a
predetermined landing site using only its own propulsion systems.[126]

SpaceX's active test program began in late 2012 with testing low-altitude, low-speed aspects of the
landing technology. Grasshopper and the Falcon 9 Reusable Development Vehicles (F9R Dev) were
experimental technology-demonstrator reusable rockets that performed vertical takeoffs and landings.

High-velocity, high-altitude aspects of the booster atmospheric return technology began testing in
late 2013 and have continued through 2018, with a 98% success rate to date. As a result of Elon
Musk's goal of crafting more cost-effective launch vehicles, SpaceX conceived a method to reuse the
first stage of their primary rocket, the Falcon 9,[127] by attempting propulsive vertical landings
on solid surfaces. Once the company determined that soft landings were feasible by touching down
over the Atlantic and Pacific Ocean, they began landing attempts on a solid platform. SpaceX leased
and modified several barges to sit out at sea as a target for the returning first stage, converting
them to autonomous spaceport drone ships (ASDS). SpaceX first achieved a successful landing and
recovery of a first stage in December 2015,[128] and in April 2016, the first stage booster first
successfully landed on the ASDS Of Course I Still Love You.[129][130]

SpaceX continues to carry out first stage landings on every orbital launch that fuel margins allow.
By October 2016, following the successful landings, SpaceX indicated they were offering their
customers a ten percent price discount if they choose to fly their payload on a reused Falcon 9
first stage.[131] On March 30, 2017, SpaceX launched a "flight-proven" Falcon 9 for the SES-10
mission. This was the first time a re-launch of a payload-carrying orbital rocket went back to
space.[132][64] The first stage was recovered and landed on the ASDS Of Course I Still Love You in
the Atlantic Ocean, also making it the first landing of a reused orbital class rocket. Elon Musk
called the achievement an "incredible milestone in the history of space."[133][134]

Interplanetary Transport System / BFR

SpaceX is developing a super-heavy lift launch system, the BFR. The BFR is a fully reusable first
stage launch vehicle and spacecraft intended to replace all of the company's existing hardware by
the early 2020s, ground infrastructure for rapid launch and relaunch, and zero-gravity propellant
transfer technology in low Earth orbit (LEO).

SpaceX initially envisioned the ITS vehicle design which was solely aimed at Mars transit and other
interplanetary uses, SpaceX in 2017 began to focus on a vehicle support all SpaceX launch service
provider capabilities: Earth-orbit, lunar-orbit, interplanetary missions, and even intercontinental
passenger transport on Earth.[135] Private passenger Yusaku Maezawa has been signed to fly around
the Moon in the BFR rocket.[136][137][138]

Musk's long term vision for the company is the development of technology and resources suitable for
human colonization on Mars. He has expressed his interest in someday traveling to the planet,
stating "I'd like to die on Mars, just not on impact."[139] A rocket every two years or so could
provide a base for the people arriving in 2025 after a launch in 2024.[140][141] According to Steve
Jurvetson, Musk believes that by 2035 at the latest, there will be thousands of rockets flying a
million people to Mars, in order to enable a self-sustaining human colony.[142]

Other projects

In January 2015, SpaceX CEO Elon Musk announced the development of a new satellite constellation to
provide global broadband internet service. In June 2015 the company asked the federal government
for permission to begin testing for a project that aims to build a constellation of 4,425
satellites capable of beaming the Internet to the entire globe, including remote regions which
currently do not have Internet access.[143][144] The Internet service would use a constellation of
4,425 cross-linked communications satellites in 1,100 km orbits. Owned and operated by SpaceX, the
goal of the business is to increase profitability and cashflow, to allow SpaceX to build its Mars
colony.[145] Development began in 2015, initial prototype test-flight satellites were launched on
the SpaceX PAZ mission in 2017. Initial operation of the constellation could begin as early as
2020. As of March 2017, SpaceX filed with the US regulatory authorities plans to field a
constellation of an additional 7,518 "V-band satellites in non-geosynchronous orbits to provide
communications services" in an electromagnetic spectrum that had not previously been "heavily
employed for commercial communications services". Called the "V-band low-Earth-orbit (VLEO)
constellation", it would consist of "7,518 satellites to follow the [earlier] proposed 4,425
satellites that would function in Ka- and Ku-band".[146] In February 2019, SpaceX formed a sibling
company, SpaceX Services, Inc., to license the manufacture and deployment of up to 1,000,000 fixed
satellite earth stations that will communicate with its Starlink system.[147]

In June 2015, SpaceX announced that they would sponsor a Hyperloop competition, and would build a
1-mile-long (1.6 km) subscale test track near SpaceX's headquarters for the competitive
events.[148][149] The first competitive event was held at the track in January 2017 and the second
in August 2017.[150][151] And the third in December 2018.[152]

Infrastructure

SpaceX is headquartered in Hawthorne, California, which also serves as its primary manufacturing
plant. The company owns a test site in Texas and operates three launch sites, with another under
development. SpaceX also operates regional offices in Redmond, Texas, Virginia, and Washington,
D.C.[43]

Headquarters, manufacturing and refurbishment facilities

Falcon 9 v1.1 rocket cores under construction at the SpaceX Hawthorne facility, November 2014.
SpaceX Headquarters is located in the Los Angeles suburb of Hawthorne, California. The large
three-story facility, originally built by Northrop Corporation to build Boeing 747 fuselages,[153]
houses SpaceX's office space, mission control, and, as of 2018, all vehicle manufacturing. In March
2018, SpaceX indicated that it would manufacture its next-generation, 9 m (30 ft)-diameter launch
vehicle, the BFR at a new facility it is building on the Los Angeles waterfront in the San Pedro
area. The company has leased an 18-acre site near Berth 240 in the Los Angeles port for 10 years,
with multiple renewals possible, and will use the site for manufacturing, recovery from shipborne
landings, and refurbishment of both the BFR booster and the BFR spaceship.[154][155]

The area has one of the largest concentrations of aerospace headquarters, facilities, and/or
subsidiaries in the U.S., including Boeing/McDonnell Douglas main satellite building campuses,
Aerospace Corp., Raytheon, NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Air Force Space Command's Space and
Missile Systems Center at Los Angeles Air Force Base, Lockheed Martin, BAE Systems, Northrop
Grumman, and AECOM, etc., with a large pool of aerospace engineers and recent college engineering
graduates.[153]

SpaceX utilizes a high degree of vertical integration in the production of its rockets and rocket
engines.[28] SpaceX builds its rocket engines, rocket stages, spacecraft, principal avionics and
all software in-house in their Hawthorne facility, which is unusual for the aerospace industry.
Nevertheless, SpaceX still has over 3,000 suppliers with some 1,100 of those delivering to SpaceX
nearly weekly.[156]

In June 2017, SpaceX announced they would construct a facility on 0.88 hectares (2.17 acres) in
Port Canaveral Florida for refurbishment and storage of previously-flown Falcon 9 and Falcon Heavy
booster cores.[157]

Development and test facilities

SpaceX operates their first Rocket Development and Test Facility in McGregor, Texas. All SpaceX
rocket engines are tested on rocket test stands, and low-altitude VTVL flight testing of the Falcon
9 Grasshopper v1.0 and F9R Dev1 test vehicles in 2013–2014 were carried out at McGregor. 2019
low-altitude VTVL testing of the much larger 9-meter (30 ft)-diameter "Starhopper" is planned to
occur at the SpaceX South Texas Launch Site near Brownsville, Texas, which is currently under
construction.[158][159][160] On January 23, 2019, strong winds at the Texas test launch site blew
over the nose cone over the first test article rocket, causing delays that will take weeks to
repair according to SpaceX representatives.[161] In the event, SpaceX decided to forego building
another nose cone for the first test article, because at the low velocities planned for that
rocket, it was unnecessary.

The company purchased the McGregor facilities from Beal Aerospace, where it refitted the largest
test stand for Falcon 9 engine testing. SpaceX has made a number of improvements to the facility
since purchase, and has also extended the acreage by purchasing several pieces of adjacent
farmland. In 2011, the company announced plans to upgrade the facility for launch testing a VTVL
rocket,[48] and then constructed a half-acre concrete launch facility in 2012 to support the
Grasshopper test flight program.[49] As of October 2012, the McGregor facility had seven test
stands that are operated "18 hours a day, six days a week"[162] and is building more test stands
because production is ramping up and the company has a large manifest in the next several years. In
addition to routine testing, Dragon capsules (following recovery after an orbital mission), are
shipped to McGregor for de-fueling, cleanup, and refurbishment for reuse in future missions.

Launch facilities

SpaceX currently operates three orbital launch sites, at Cape Canaveral, Vandenberg Air Force Base,
and Kennedy Space Center, and is under construction on a fourth in Brownsville, Texas. SpaceX has
indicated that they see a niche for each of the four orbital facilities and that they have
sufficient launch business to fill each pad.[163] The Vandenberg launch site enables highly
inclined orbits (66–145˚), while Cape Canaveral enables orbits of medium inclination, up to
51.6°.[164] Before it was retired, all Falcon 1 launches took place at the Ronald Reagan Ballistic
Missile Defense Test Site on Omelek Island.

Cape Canaveral Cape Canaveral Air Force Station Space Launch Complex 40 (SLC-40) is used for Falcon
9 launches to low Earth and geostationary orbits. SLC-40 is not capable of supporting Falcon Heavy
launches. As part of SpaceX's booster reusability program, the former Launch Complex 13 at Cape
Canaveral, now renamed Landing Zone 1, has been designated for use for Falcon 9 first-stage booster
landings.

Vandenberg

Vandenberg Air Force Base Space Launch Complex 4 East (SLC-4E) is used for payloads to polar
orbits. The Vandenberg site can launch both Falcon 9 and Falcon Heavy,[165] but cannot launch to
low inclination orbits. The neighboring SLC-4W has been converted to Landing Zone 4, where SpaceX
successfully landed one Falcon 9 first-stage booster, in October 2018. [166] Kennedy Space Center

On April 14, 2014, SpaceX signed a 20-year lease for Launch Pad 39A.[167] The pad was subsequently
modified to support Falcon 9 and Falcon Heavy launches. SpaceX has launched 13 Falcon 9 missions
from Launch Pad 39A and more recently the Falcon Heavy Rocket, on April 11, 2019.[168][169] SpaceX
intends to launch the first crewed missions to the ISS from Launch Pad 39A in 2019.[170] Brownsville

In August 2014, SpaceX announced they would be building a commercial-only launch facility at
Brownsville, Texas.[171][172] The Federal Aviation Administration released a draft Environmental
Impact Statement for the proposed Texas facility in April 2013, and "found that 'no impacts would
occur' that would force the Federal Aviation Administration to deny SpaceX a permit for rocket
operations,"[173][173] and issued the permit in July 2014.[174] SpaceX started construction on the
new launch facility in 2014 with production ramping up in the latter half of 2015,[175] with the
first suborbital launches from the facility in 2019.[158][159][176] Real estate packages at the
location have been named by SpaceX with names based on the theme "Mars Crossing".[177][178]
Satellite prototyping facility

Further information: Starlink (satellite constellation)

In January 2015, SpaceX announced it would be entering the satellite production business and global
satellite internet business. The first satellite facility is a 30,000 square foot (2800m2) office
building located in Redmond, Washington. As of January 2017, a second facility in Redmond was
acquired with 40,625 square feet (3800m2) and has become a research and development lab for the
satellites.[179] In July 2016, SpaceX acquired an additional 740 square meters (8,000 sq ft)
creative space in Irvine, California (Orange County) to focus on satellite communications.[180]
